Welcome in this lesson.
It's going to be about building out our each male structure so that later on we can incorporate all
of the gameplay that is necessary in order to produce our application.
So starting out we're going to create a div that's going to be a mean div calling it giving it a class.
We're going to sign a score there.
So this is where we can output whatever the score values are that we want to show.
Also setting up another class and we can give this one on class of game and then within here we can
show all of the gameplay creating one more dip.
So inside of the data the game class div can create a div and this will be the start screen and then
here is where we can have all of the welcome message and start button.
And so on.
So we'll add that in as well.
Next creating a class and adding to this class we're gonna call it game area.
And so this is where all of our gameplay will take place.
So we're gonna swap between the start screen and the game area once we start the game.
I'm also going to create a basic class I'm going to call it height and this is going to have one property
where we're gonna use display none so that way we don't show both of those and we can add and remove
the hide class as needed in order to show different screens to the player.
Next we're going to use javascript to connect to our elements on the page and within the start screen
we're gonna add in an event listener.
So when the user presses the start screen it can start the game as well.
So selecting the various elements that we have on our page are going to use const and for the score
area using the document and query selector.
We're going to select the element with score and output that into the javascript score object selecting
our start screen using document query selector.
We're gonna select the element with a class of Start screen you don't have to call them the same you
could call them something different as well.
And next stop selecting our game area and that's going to call it the same thing so that we have some
consistency query selector and selecting that element with the class of game.
So once I've made these selections I usually like to double check and make sure that we are accessing
them properly so opening up your developer console.
We can type in score we see that we access that div type in Start screen so that we access that's div
and then game area just to make sure that we're accessing the right divs so that coming up next we can
focus on the javascript and create all of the interactions that are gonna be necessary in order to produce
the gameplay.
So one last thing that we wanted to add in before we conclude and that's adding in an event listener
to start screen and this is going to be a click event.
So whenever the player clicks the start screen where we've got that welcome message this is going to
trigger off the game start and adding in a function call it start.
So this is where all of our gameplay will start and we'll take a look at that and we'll build that out
in the upcoming lessons.
So go ahead and setup your default H2 AML add in classes as necessary within the styling and then use
javascript to add all of those elements as objects usable objects within your code so that you're ready
to move on to the next step and then also test out that click event.
So that makes sure that that is functioning and the way to do that.
Usually I put a console message into that function so I know that whenever I'm clicking it it is being
invoked and it is working.
So go in and add that into your project and be ready to move on to the next step.